Welcome back.
I'm about to show you my favorite animation of the course.
I'm very proud of it.
So don't laugh at me if you think it's so.
I like to think of recursion as this scenario where you have this top pouring water into a glass for
this little man that's sitting on the couch watching TV.
And when I think about recursion I like to think that they have two big problems.
One is that well they're kind of difficult to understand at first.
The second is that we can have a case like this where I'm pouring water into a glass and pouring water
into a glass and pouring water into a glass.
And that is me calling the function over and over and over.
And as we keep going as we keep going fills up the cup past it's limit.
It keeps going.
It doesn't stop.
It keeps scolding the function keeps going to function until oh boy.
The man has drowned.
What just happened here.
This is called Stack Overflow.
Let's go back to some code.
Remember the function inception that we created.
If I run this function
and I say inception
and simply run this function I'll get an error.
Let's make this a little bit bigger to see.
I get an error saying maximum call stack size exceeded my browser.
In this case Google Chrome is smart enough to say all right you've got to stop this madness.
I'm just calling this inception function over and over and over and over because remember our function
just calls itself.
And eventually if Google Chrome doesn't stop this it's going to crash.
And in the past that's what would happen if I run this function the browser would crash and I would
have to restart it.
But they've added a safeguards here saying hey you've called the maximum call stack size.
You've got to stop what you're doing now.
This is called stack over for.
Why is that.
Let's dive deeper into this topic going to clear the console here and right our inception function.
But this time I'm going to add a keyword called debugger that the Chrome browser is going to detect
and pause the function when it sees this word.
So I'm going to run this function and you'll notice that as soon as they hit enter it's going to stop
and give me a little panel here where I can control the function that's hit enter.
And there you go.
I mean now that debugger mode and you'll see here a few things.
One will show me where I am and the function and also show me a change surround just so it's a little
bit cleaner.
I'm going to make this a little smaller.
There you go.
You see here is something called the cold stack.
Now from the name Stack Overflow this might give you a bit of a hint.
Right now we've called the inception function right here.
We have an called it the second time around.
If I click on the step over icon over here it's going to go to the next line of code.
It's going to go to the next.
And now it's going to call the next interception function.
Have a look over here at the call stack as to what's going to happen next.
Do you see that I just added a nother function on the call stack and as we know about stack data structure
we're just adding the function call.
On top of the older one and if I step over here and go again that's a third function call and if I keep
going keep going keep going.
You'll see that I'm just adding more and more and more things to the stack.
But there's a problem here right.
Nothing's getting popped from the stack.
Instead the function just keeps running keeps running keeps running keeps running keeps running until
we run out of memory here.
Remember stack.
In this case is grabbing a piece of memory from our computer and adding inception to the stack.
And as you know memory is limited we don't have infinite amount.
So as we keep going as we keep going it's going to stack overflow and throw in there.
And this is one of the biggest problems with recursion that we're going to get into later on.
As you see here though it can be very very dangerous because we can run programs that overflow that
never stop that have infinite loops essentially that crash our programs.
You'll also see here that this costs memory a stack is holding these function calls and recursion one
of its downside is that we have to hold onto these calls and remember them one by one which can get
really expensive.
So if we ever get asked this question in an interview about recursion maybe a possible problem with
recursion you can simply say well the computer needs to allocate memory to remember things.
Stack Overflow can occur when we have recursion and there's no way to stop this recursive call.
It's simply the computer saying whoa whoa whoa whoa OK this is getting silly.
I'm not remembering anymore things.
I'm out of memory.
I'm going to just out in the next video.
We're going to try and solve this problem and learn about something called a base case.
I think that you have to have a recursive function to stop it from doing this.
I'll see in the next one by.